The prophet Isaiah foretold
that ‘in the final part of the days,
‘nations would stream
‘to the mountain of Jehovah
‘[his elevated pure worship]
to be instructed about his ways.’
In God’s organization,
we can all benefit
from that divine education.
We also see the results
of Proverbs 4:18:
“The path of the righteous
is like the bright morning light
that grows brighter and brighter.”
Naturally, what we learn
through the program of divine education
has to keep pace
with our refined understanding
of Bible teachings.
To accomplish this,
the Teaching Committee
of the Governing Body
oversees the work
of the Theocratic Schools Department
in Patterson, New York.
How do they keep
the curriculums of our theocratic schools
up-to-date and effective
in training God’s people to do his will?
In the fall of 1942,
Brother Nathan Knorr wondered
if 1,000 pioneers could be found
who would be willing to go through Gilead
to ensure the school’s operation
for at least five years.
Nearly 80 years later,
Gilead School is still going strong,
and it’s not alone.
The Theocratic Schools Department
develops and maintains seven schools
under the direction
of the Teaching Committee.
Together, these schools train God’s people
for theocratic assignments around the world.
But each school’s curriculum
needs continual review and updating.
Why?
We may receive new direction
for a school from the Governing Body
or need to integrate Bible teachings
from new or updated publications.
Thanks to Jehovah’s rich blessing,
theocratic schools are being conducted
in 93 branch territories in 293 languages.
The amazing growth of these schools produces
a mammoth amount of work behind the scenes.
There are more than 2,000 documents
that need to be put through a robust process
of formatting, proofreading,
editing, cross-checking for redundancy,
and internal indexing.
Additionally, thousands of reference checks
that include scripture citations
and publication references are made.
The schools are dynamic,
so this work is continuous
to keep them up-to-date,
accurate, and harmonious.
Once revisions are identified,
the affected teaching outlines are adjusted.
Often, when a school is revised,
a pilot class is taught.
Brothers from the Schools Department
can observe
and listen to comments and suggestions
from the instructors.
They can then make further adjustments
before the updated school
is taught worldwide.
The theocratic schools
are having a far-reaching effect.
How did the students feel
about their training?
The training I received at Gilead
was a big help
for my new assignment
as a member of the Branch Committee.
It helped me not to be rule oriented
or position oriented.
It helped me to understand how Jehovah
wants me to use authority
—to treat our brothers and sisters
in a humble and a friendly and a loving way,
to really take care of his sheep.
In October 2018,
a special announcement was made.
We are pleased to inform you
that the Governing Body has given approval
for all field missionaries
with an FMF enrollment
who have been serving for at least five years
to attend
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers, SKE.
SKE was very much a refresher course for us.
It helped us to be able to bring back to mind
things that we had learned from Gilead
and then improve upon them.
Going to SKE was just Jehovah’s way
of giving us
that encouragement (that hug)
telling us that he loves us and giving us
the needed training to keep on going.
Brother Knorr may have wondered in 1942
if we’d ever find 1,000 students,
but by the tenth class of Gilead,
the 1,000th student had graduated.
In just the United States branch territory,
more than 1,000 students are being trained
in theocratic schools each week!
In our times,
we see Isaiah 60:22 coming true:
“The little one will become a thousand
and the small one a mighty nation.”
Jehovah has blessed
the use of theocratic schools
to contribute to this amazing growth.
And with such training,
he’s strengthening his people
from the inside out
as he prepares us all
for “the real life” to come.